# Stochastic-PDE-Payoff-Driven

This repository accompanies the preprint "Pattern Formation in Agent-Based and PDE Models for Evolutionary Games with Payoff-Driven Motion", by Tianyong Yao, Chenning Xu, and Daniel B. Cooney. It includes all scripts used to generate the figures in the paper.

The repository consists of two folders: MATLAB scripts, which are stand-alone codes executable with MATLAB R2024 and generate the PDE figures, and Python scripts, which are based on the _piegy_ package and generate the stochastic figures.

For reference, below is a list of figures and the scripts that were used to reproduce each of them.

Generated by stochastic codes:
- Figure 3.1 and 3.2: Run init_model_demo.py
- Figure 3.3: Run pure_diffusion_distribution.py
- Figure 3.4: Run pure_diffusion_correlation.py
- Figure 3.5: Run payoff_driven_distribution.py
- Figure 3.6: Run payoff_driven_correlation.py
- Figure 5.4: Run mixed_correlation.py

Generated by PDE codes:
- Figure 4.1: Run NP_criticalD_u.m
- Figure 4.2: Run NP_pattern.m
- Figure 4.3: Run NP_pattern.m
- Figure 4.4(a): Run NP_Du_uv_save.m to generate the data file NP_average_uv_50.csv. Then run NP_plot_uvDu.m with the NP_average_uv_50.csv file to produce the figure.
- Figure 4.4(b): Run NP_Du_pi_save.m to generate the data file NP_average_pHD_50.csv. Then run NP_plot_piDv.m with the NP_average_pHD_50.csv file to produce the figure.
- Figure 4.5: Run P_wv_criticalbounds_mix.m
- Figure 5.1: Run P_wv_criticalbounds_mix.m
- Figure 5.2(a): Run P_wv_uv_save.m to generate the data file P_average_uv.csv. Then run P_plot_uvWv.m with the P_average_uv.csv file to produce the figure.
- Figure 5.2(b): Run P_wv_uv_save.m to generate the data file P_average_pi.csv. Then run P_plot_piWv.m with the P_average_pi.csv file to produce the figure.
- Figure 6.1: Run Nonlocal_trBdetB.m
